Have one more application problem here that I want to look at.
So I've got a real battery a real battery consist of an ideal battery with a internal resistance that
is in series with it.
And now I want to ask the question well I want to connect this battery now to some other resistance
and I want to know for which value of this resistance.
Am I going to get the maximum amount of power.
And the power dissipated by this resistance.
So remember the power being dissipated by any resistance.
In this case I'm interested in this upper case are simply going to be the value of the resistance multiplied
by the currents squared.
Now there's actually two terms here to find the maximum power being dissipated.
Well it depends not only on the value of the resistance but it depends on the currents.
You can't just say you want to maximize the current.
OK.
Because this value of the current here also depends on the value.
So let's start maybe by eliminating the value of the current.
Very easy to find for this particular circuit because we only have two resistors.
So again if you do a loop around here starting at point B.
Kirchoff's loop rule gives us e minus the voltage drop across the internal resistance minus the voltage
drop across the resistance that's plugged in over here to the battery and do a complete loop that has
to be equal to zero.
Again at the end you get that the current flowing in the circuit simply looks like this.
All right so now let's go ahead and substitute this in the expression up here.
So we get our
R plus uppercase R and don't forget the square this guy.
Now let me just group the terms together maybe carry out the square.
So the first term here is the term that involves only the resistance values.
This guy hears our Plus our and I have to square it and everything here gets multiply by the earmuffs
squared.
All right.
So there is our value for the power.
Now the question is which value of R will maximize this.
Well let's do some test cases.
What happens if so do Case 1.
What if our equals zero.
What if there is no resistance.
What power do I get here.
Well if you substitute big R equals zero.
Look what you get.
You get zero appear and you get divided by our squares so that will be fine.
So at the end you're going to get that the power dissipated by that resistance R is actually zero.
So that's doesn't look like a maximum value to me.
Let's try another value.
What happens if I make this resistance very very big.
What if I make are tend toward something very very big tend toward infinity.
Where would you get.
Well now you have to take a limit here because look at the term at the bottom.
The term at the bottom.
Forget about little r if Big R is very very big.
Right.
The dominant term here will be the the upper case value of the resistance here and what you're going
to get here is going to be one divided by R.
So let's maybe carry that out.
And in that case if you divide now by something that's very very big.
So the term at the bottom is always going to be bigger.
And then again that means that in this limit over here the power being dissipated by the resistance
is again is going to be zero in the limit that are equal to infinity or tends toward infinity.
So it must mean that there is some value in between zero and infinity where we're actually going to
get some maximum value.
Right you could try any other value and you're going to get a positive number which means that if I
substitute our equals to zero here and let's just say here is basically infinity there's got to be some
point here in between where we're going to get some maximum value of the power
your own plotting power being dissipated by that resistance versus the value of the resistance.
These were the two cases here illustrated by both of these red points.
All right so now let's try to find what is this actual value of our in or you do this someone do a little
bit of calculus but what is this value of are here where do you get that maximum power.
Again if you remember from calculus while we have an expression here what we want to do now to find
the maximum is we're going to differentiate with respect to our ok in order to differentiate this function
here.
Well actually what I will do first is maybe a little bit careful here.
Let me first rewrite it and then I'll take the derivative.
So let's write it down over here.
And I'm just going to write it in a nice easier form to take the derivative because I'm going to use
the product rule for the derivative.
So I'm going to write the function as are going to bring this term at the top.
And if I do that I just have to switch the exponent minus two.
Then all of that gets multiplied by a constant here which is the IMF of the battery.
Now let's take the derivative of this function here with respect to our.
And what we want to do to find the maximum value we want to set that derivative equals to zero.
OK so we have two functions we don't have to worry about this term over here let's just leave it outside.
That's just a constant term not a function of our.
So I'll take the derivative of the first term.
That's simply one.
So that gets multiplied by the second term.
So right away I'm simply going to write it in the denominator.
See the step.
Now I multo I have to take the derivative of the second term and leave the first term the way it is.
So that looks like minus to our in this term here in the bracket the exponent here has to be reduced
by 1 so that becomes r plus R to raise to the power of 3.
So make sure you kind of understand this step here.
That's kind of a critical step.
Now we have two different fractions over here but they're on different they have a different denominator
so in order to simplify this we're going to do is going to put things on a common denominator.
I'm going to leave this constant term there although I could have just gotten rid of it I guess.
All right.
And the denominator here that I'm going to use is our Plus our race to the third power.
So that means that this term here remains unchanged.
That's minus to our
and this first term here you simply have to add R plus R.
In order to make it equal OK.
Now if we want to set everything equal to zero.
Well now you can factor out or you can simplify some of the terms rather you can get rid of this.
You can get rid of the bottom term and here you can simplify this right.
This is our Plus our minus to our must be equal to zero.
So that means that the R minus r must be equal to zero.
And at the end the last result we get is that the resistance is simply equal to the internal resistance
of the battery.
That is the value that is going to give us a maximum.
So let's clear that up a little bit.
Means when are here equal to the internal resistance you're going to get a maximum power and go ahead
and substitute that back into our expression to find what the actual maximum is.
But that's kind of an interesting result.
Later on when you talk about AC circuits they they call this impedance matching.
If you can impedance match you're going to get the maximum power delivered to the load.
OK.
But it's the same thing that happens here with DC circuits.
You want to get the maximum power being delivered to this resistance.
You set the resistance equal to the internal resistance of the battery and that's how you're going to
get the maximum power delivered to this back to this load or to this resistance.